+++
title = "Assessment of muscular energy metabolism and heat shock response of the green abalone Haliotis fulgens (Gastropoda: Philipi) at extreme temperatures combined with acute hypoxia and hypercapnia"
date = "2019-01-01"
publication_types = ["2"]
authors = ["M.A. Tripp-Valdez", "C. Bock", "G. Lannig", "N. Koschnick", "H.O. Portner", "M. Lucassen"]
publication = "In: Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology Part - B: Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, (227), _pp. 1-11_, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cbpb.2018.08.009"
abstract = "The interaction between ocean warming, hypoxia and hypercapnia, suggested by climate projections, may push an organism earlier to the limits of its thermal tolerance window. In a previous study on juveniles of green abalone (Haliotis fulgens), combined exposure to hypoxia and hypercapnia during heat stress induced a lowered critical thermal maximum (CTmax), indicated by constrained oxygen consumption, muscular spams and loss of attachment. Thus, the present study investigated the cell physiology in foot muscle of H. fulgens juveniles exposed to acute warming (18 °C to 32 °C at +3 °C day−1) under hypoxia (50% air saturation) and hypercapnia (~1000 μatm PCO2), alone and in combination, to decipher the mechanisms leading to functional loss in this tissue. Under exposure to either hypoxia or hypercapnia, citrate synthase (CS) activity decreased with initial warming, in line with thermal compensation, but returned to control levels at 32 °C. The anaerobic enzymes lactate and tauropine dehydrogenase increased only under hypoxia at 32 °C. Under the combined treatment, CS overcame thermal compensation and remained stable overall, indicating active mitochondrial regulation under these conditions. Limited accumulation of anaerobic metabolites indicates unchanged mode of energy production. In all treatments, upregulation of Hsp70 mRNA was observed already at 30 °C. However, lack of evidence for Hsp70 protein accumulation provides only limited support to thermal denaturation of proteins. We conclude that under combined hypoxia and hypercapnia, metabolic depression allowed the H. fulgens musculature to retain an aerobic mode of metabolism in response to warming but may have contributed to functional loss. © 2018 Elsevier Inc."
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
